# sound-experiment
a short max piece that i made about some of my experiences as a queer person traversing online spaces. an example output of this system can be found in example.aif.

The main thing that drives this is a genetic algorithm that attempts to piece together four different samples of me singing (with a rlly bad cold). At first the attempts are chaotic and jarring but over time due to the nature of the genetic algorithm it becomes somewhat understandable and a conversation can be interpreted. For this piece I took a lot of inspiration from Björk’s Medulla album which was almost entirely acapella much like this piece which is also acapella (If you don’t count maxmsp and javascript assistance).

My genetic algorithm takes in 24 genes arranged in groups of 3 each mapped in Max to correspond to: Sample Playback Region, Sample Playback Direction (Backwards or Forwards) and Sample Playback Speed. The groups of 3 genes are used to pilot a play~ object, and every sample has it’s own genes, mutation probabilities and “death” point, if one of my first 3 samples manages to solve its genetic algorithm it will just play the sample of me singing straight forward and then stop (unless it hits its death point first), the last sample has its own death point tied to the master volume fader in case solving the algorithm takes too long, ensuring that each time the piece is played it is somewhere around the same length.

The death point of a sample is when it’s getValue() or evolve() function returns. I added in sample death because the closer the genetic algorithm gets to completion, the more human the conversation sounds. I wanted there to be some kind of uncanny valley present in the sound so that artistically it would mirror how different and alienating communicating over online spaces can be as sometimes it can be  very overwhelming.

For the lyrics for the assignment I went and searched the internet for screencaps of conversations that queer people have had online with eachother. I eventually decided on four scripted sequences which include such classics as "Hi, how're you, im good thanks, what are you up to?" I did this to add a bit of authenticity to my conversations with the online communication concept. 

For this project my workflow was to first complete the genetic algorithm in Javascript and then map the genes that the genetic algorithm would produce using Max Msp to generate a musical outcome. The main problem that I had with my build was getting the array output from Javascript in Max into a list, since the array was output as a single character string I had to find a way in Max to break down strings into integers which I found with the regular expression object in Max and the unpack object. Another problem that I had was to figure out how to switch directions in playback dynamically which I solved by using the Gswitch2 object to control the mapping of inputs to a pack object.
